AMD is 1,600 AF based on its new product
SKU the am the r5 1600 AF is a brand new
CPU with an old old name from 2017 it's
mostly an r5 2600 in that it's a slower
variants of the Zen plus CPU from the
2000 series but with a 1000 series name
and these silently released the 1600 AF
has an $85 option but it's on 12
nanometer instead of 14 nanometer and
carries other 2nd gen Rison features in
today's review of the new $85 processor
we'll look at performance versus the
original r5 1635 2600 overclocking
performance as well and whether the 12
nanometers 1600 AF will do about the
same OC as a 12 nanometer rise in 2000
part typically they were about 100 to
200 megahertz higher than the 1000
series so this could mean a lot before
that this video is brought to you by Lee
an Lee's 11 dynamic excel the O 11
dynamic acts as a follow-up to the
critically acclaimed 11 dynamic but it's
bigger to support more complex built
we've done air cooling builds and an
elaborate liquid cooling build in the O
11 dynamic Excel and we're confident and
recommending the case is one of the best
options on the market learn more about
the LAN Lee 11 dynamic excel at the link
in the description below the AMD r5 1600
as AF is named as such because it's F
comes after E and in the alphabet we
think that's why because there's a 1600
AE so the AE box version of the 1600 was
the original and the AF is a newer SKU
it's had a lot of discussion online
there are only really just reddit
threads for a while with no media
coverage so we're not any official
answers from AMD on if this is actually
a 12 nanometer part or if hardware info
was just incorrect which can definitely
happen centers are wrong a lot of the
time so that's kind of where we stood we
reached out to AMD we did get
confirmation that it is a 12 nanometer
part and more on that in a moment
but we also decided to buy one and test
it and the 1600 AF at about $85 is
really pretty cheap especially once you
consider that it's more or less a 2600
which has been 100 115 somewhere in that
range the last year or so now and that
was also a good deal
at those prices so for the 1600 AF at 85
bucks you land between the 3000 G which
is about $50 and the low-end previous
rise in parts which this is but the name
is really weird on this and that's why
this whole thing is kind of odd it's not
misleading or bad marketing in a
negative fashion it's more that if he
could have done more with this for
themselves and it's it's kind of weird
to see a company miss out on an
opportunity like that because this could
very easily be named arise in 3 or
horizon 5 3300 X or if they hadn't
reserved it for the China launch par
it's a 3500 or something like that and
it wouldn't even be weird because Anthea
already has said one parts with 3,000 of
the name the 3000 G is one of those it
already has
Zen Plus parts with 3,000 of the name
the ap is the 3400 G the 3200 years and
plus so it's not like it would be
diluting the Zen to Architecture or
understanding of where that architecture
is deployed at all I'd fit in exactly
the same way so instead with that one in
front of the name it just sounds like a
two-year-old part when in fact it's not
it's actually it's a brand-new CPU built
on a about a one-year-old process step
for Zen plus for eyes in two thousand
seas so don't let the name fool you the
1600 AF is a 2000 series CPU at its
heart so when we reached out to Andy
what Andy told us was that Andy's no
longer making the Rison 5 1614 Andrea
the 1,600 AF is a second general
placement for the first gen part and
it's because anthe no longer has
inventory of the 40 nanometer wafers at
least enough of it for this task so it
has instead shifted to the newer 12
nanometers supply this is also
interesting because it indicates
anything was still making 1000 series
parts and is still making
2000 series parts functionally with
different naming though so it's
something we would have expected would
have been killed off while ago that said
and they could have very easily released
this as a rising 5 3 or whatever rise in
something 3000 series part with a
different name and everyone would they
get a ton of media coverage every
wannabe really hyped about it but
instead it just looks like an ancient
part and it's not another difference
Andy noted to us that the smaller Wraith
stealth cooler is the trade-off here and
part of the cost savings that said the
1600 replacement on 12 nanometer one is
going to be more power efficient and to
the 2600 ships with the same cooler so
for the most part they should if if the
2600 is handled on it then the 1600 AI
should be fine too but we're not looking
at the coolers today so unofficially the
2600 might be better bins than the 1600
AF but there's no guarantee in any kind
of overclocking obviously so and we
don't have a sample size to know but we
can get into some overclocking today and
before we get into all the gaming charts
and results the quick answer on how does
it overclock is we did about 42 hundred
megahertz affords a gigahertz on the
1600 AF whereas the 1600 beam rise on
1000 series was stuck at about 4.0
gigahertz 3.9 and our instance of the
one we tested and this was typical rise
1000 series you could almost never get
over 4.0 you were pretty lucky if you
did extremely lucky if you did rise in
2000 you could get the get stuck at 4.2
and almost all instances where we tested
so this one's at 4.2 even though it's
1,000 series maybe because of the 2000
series part and otherwise it's probably
time to just look at some numbers so
let's get into the gaming benchmarks and
see how this thing does we should start
with a frequency chart before wasting
our time on testing it wouldn't make
sense to redo all of the game testing if
the frequencies are identical first
looking at an all core workload from
blender and the GM logo render we
monitored the and the r5 1600 AF CPU
average all core frequency at 36 47
megahertz flat there's no fluctuation
here because unlike sin to precision
boost to isn't working too wildly
fluctuate the clock based on every few
degrees of change in the diet Emperor
and the r5 1600 AE that's the older one
plotted at 33 99 megahertz all core
average there's a market gain from the
1600 AF just in the all core frequency
and clearly the AF should be better in
testing than the AE for Cinebench r20
with a single thread load we measured
the a.m. the r5 1600 a FS maximum
frequency at 36 99 megahertz every
second of the test where a held at least
one constant thread at that frequency
this is also when I am these advertised
booster numbers made more sense in this
generation the r5 1600 AE meanwhile did
about 30 399 megahertz to 36 99
megahertz bouncing between the threads
as the load was switched
af is doing a much better job at holding
its frequency and is actually
outperforming the our five sixteen
hundred's originally advertised speeds
hitman two with direct x12 is first
starting at 1080p the r5 1600 retest
data places it roughly the same as the
original data although slightly improved
in average frame rate the 87 FPS average
r5 1600 stock CPUs are performed by the
r5 1600 AFS 96 FPS average by an
impressive 10 percent putting it about
equal with an A and the r5 2600 stock
CPU which makes sense the stock 2600
should do a bit better on average
because the frequency when stock but
otherwise they're pretty similar if not
the same overclocking the r5 1600 AF got
it - 102 FPS average at 4.2 gigahertz
which our performs the 3.9 gigahertz our
560 now to retest results 99 FPS average
by 3.6 percent that's about the same as
the r5 2600 at 4.2 once again which
scored around 104 ish FPS average with
the overclocked for $85 the r5 1600 AF
is significantly more valuable than an
AMD r5 3400 G or 32 energy provided you
can find a discrete GPU for the
difference and that shouldn't be too
hard that's obviously assuming a
deployment where you can use a d GPU
though as for the modern am the r5 3600
that's at about 115 FPS average stock so
it's serving frames and about 20% less
time for frame than the r5 1600 AF it's
certainly a better deal than the Intel
i5 9600 K is stock performance and it's
really at 85 dollars it's it's very good
performance for a budget PC at 1440p the
results are mostly the same that makes
sense since these CPUs are all low-end
enough that we've become CPU bound and
so changing the load to be more on the
GPU doesn't actually matter here because
we're CPU limited to begin with
Assassin's Creed is next where we often
see direct thread impact and benefit for
increased thread count frequency still
matters though the am the r5 1600 stock
CPU at initial testings at about 80 FPS
average the retest put us at 83 FPS
average thanks to the new BIOS updates
Windows updates all that stuff in the
last few months and the r5 1600 AF ran
at 92 FPS average that's an increase in
average frame rate of 10% from the AE to
the AF with neither meaningful nor
noticeable impacts the frame time
consistency
but overall meaningful impact to average
frame rate there are five 1600 AF at
four point two gigahertz did 98 FPS
average while the 3.9 gigahertz 1600 got
stuck at 94 FPS average the Delta
improving on the AF is four point three
percent
as for the RFI 2600 stock have us at
about the performance of the RFI of 1600
AF stock CPU while the OC repositioned
that to rough equivalents with the r5
1600 a FOC once again 485 bucks
performance is strong and worthy of
serious consideration even though it has
a 1 in the front of its name it's not an
old processor this would be great for a
budget game in PC its 2000-series risin
just it's except the name isn't to the
housing seats but everything I'll say is
basically as for the much more expensive
r5 3600 that one runs at 115 FPS average
in this game or 25% better than the r5
1600 a I've stock CPU assassin speed up
1440p once again is predictable we see
no meaningful change here since the
benchmark is primarily CPU limited G be
limited and top performance is largely
unaffected shadow of the Tomb Raider
with DirectX 12 is next beginning with
1080p testing for this one our original
test results had the r5 1600 at 106 FPS
average 77 fps 1% lows and 64 fps your
problem percent lows the retest for this
review brought that up
minimally to 108 FPS average and with
nearly identical lows not much has
changed for the 1600 since earlier this
year but it was still worth doing a
second time
Thor 5 1600 with 3.9 gigahertz OC did
score meaningfully better than our
original set of tests for the year up to
120 point 4 FPS average as for the r5
1600 AF stock performance exceeded the
1680 results by nine point seven percent
at 118 FPS average instead of 108 FPS
average that puts it about on par with
the r5 1600 OC retests 120 FPS average
results the r5 1600 AF at 4.2 gigahertz
scored 125 FPS average and for
comparison the AMD r5 2600 stock CPU
scored about the same as the 1600 AF
there's no visible difference here to
the player and some additional retesting
here if we had sufficient time before
CES might have even these numbers out a
bit more still but either way it's about
where we'd expect based on the previous
results the 4.2 gigahertz r5 2600 OC
placed it a bit above the
five 1600 AFOs see results and within
test variance all of these numbers make
sense they are at this point basically
the same processor that puts the r5 1600
AF as approximately equivalent to an r5
2600 in this title the 2600 is higher
bass and boost will put them closer to
well should put the 2600 marginally
ahead of the 1600 AF on average everyone
2018 is next and gives us a DirectX 11
look at games we like this one because
it's frame rate is so remarkably high
under either CPU or GPU intensive
conditions so from a testing standpoint
we can get a less mitigated look at
performance same the r5 1600 stock CPU
moved from 199 FPS average to 205 FPS
average with three tests with low is
also improving slightly they and the r5
1600 AF had an impressive 226 FPS
average or a lead of 9.8 percent versus
the stock and the r5 1600 to 205 FPS
average the 1600 AF overclocked jumped
to 240 FPS average about 6.5 percent
better than stock while the r5 2600 sat
predictably close by F 1 at 1440p does
have the results chopped a bit mostly
from the spikes that shoot higher on the
GPU in the benchmark the r5 1600 AF ends
up at 213 FPS average an 221 FPS average
for the OC 4.2 gigahertz results the top
gets chopped off these results but the
scaling is similar civilization 6 is a
turn time benchmark based in seconds
rather than frames allowing us to see AI
simulation processing time the and the
r5 1600 AF stocks EPA required forty
point seven seconds to complete each of
the AI player turns on average with the
overclocked to 4.2 gigahertz reducing
that requirement to 37 point one seconds
or an eight point eight percent
reduction and the r5 1600 stock CPU
after retesting required about forty two
point six seconds to process each turn
the r5 1600 AF ends up at about six
point seven percent faster than the 1680
retest or about equivalent to the RFI
2600 stock CPU once again GTA 5 is the
oldest game on our bench but it's fun
for its reduced reliance on cores it's
more of a look at how the older games
were built and given the fact that it's
still consistently a top 10 game on
Steam it's worth a look
the and the r5 1600 AF scored 85 FPS
average stock or about 93 FPS average
with the 4.2 gigahertz overclock the am
the r5 1680
we test headed at 77 FPS average about
the same as the original test from a few
months ago and the overclocked put it at
86 FPS average OC versus OC the
improvement in the 1600 AF is about 8.5%
from AE to AF when both are overclocked
there are five 2600 ran at around 6 FPS
average putting it about equal to or
slightly better than the 1600 af total
war Warhammer - is campaign benchmarked
is another CPU heavy test scenario and
this one positioned the MDR 560 hundred
AF at 131 FPS average stock 141 FPS
average overclocked with improvement to
lows and improved over the a.m. the r5
1600 retest 119 FPS average by about 10%
stock to stock the results don't change
which is our earlier set of tests for
these CPUs the a.m. the r5 2600 stock
CPU ran again where you'd expect it it's
about 146 when overclocked
that puts it as better than the and the
r5 1600 a I've stock to stock by about
5% overclocking isn't really much
difference since they're both 4.2
finally for the battle sequence the r5
1600 AF ran at 138 FPS average stock 146
FPS average overclocked and the r5 1600
retested at about 124 FPS average stock
the same as previously and within
variants and 132 FPS average overclocked
is also the same the r5 2600 OC plays
roughly the same as the 1600 AF one
looking at both sets of overclocked
results and the stock r5 2600 was just
ahead of the r5 1600 AF stock result
we're gonna skip the production
benchmarks for this one we're about to
fly to CES so we're cutting it short but
also the results are all predictable
you've seen where the 1600 Falls the AF
that is compared to the 2600 now so you
can just look at our other charts with
the 2600 on it to figure out where
things would align and that'll get you
most of the way there so check our other
reviews for all the synthetics if you
want to see how it does in blender
Premiere Photoshop or something else but
otherwise we've gotten you all the
gaming numbers and the frequency numbers
and that's what really matters here
that's it then that's everything for the
1600 AF the $85 price point makes this
actually a really good processor it's
good pricing that we were already happy
with the 2600 at 100 ish dollars USD and
we bought this 85 so it's properly the
price that's what we paid for it on
Amazon I think it was and at 85 if
you're
we our opinion always leans towards D
GPU + CPU discrete solutions rather than
ap use unless you're in a specific
scenario where your space constrained or
something.but
and the 3,200 G is kind of forgivable in
some instances because of its price the
34-hour G is just kind of a bad deal in
most cases where you can fit a GPU so
for this one if you can fit a d GPU in
your box you really might as well go
with the $85 1600 AF and a cheap GPU
like something the seventy to a hundred
dollar range
there's plenty used options there's some
570s stuff like that and you'd be way
better off than with a 3400 G if your
case supports it so the only odd thing
here is not really negative in a way
that matters from a consumer perspective
just kind of negative for me and these
aren't perspective which is the
marketing of this not taking advantage
of doing a refresh and naming it
something else and kind of making it
seem like it's a 3000 series part but
it's not you just you kind of get used
to that sort of stuff from AMD Intel and
NVIDIA all alike
they have the 3000 G they align the
names but they stuck with Zen
architecture so it's not something any
of these 400 - it's just it's a bit odd
that they didn't do it for this one I
can't say that bothers me it doesn't
bother me I just find it weird from a
manufacturer perspective for consumers
who cares as long as you know what
exists it's a good part we'd be fine
with buying it if you're trying to buy
under 100 bucks for the CPU get a good
budget gaming CPU going with still a lot
of threads to deal with other workloads
or just because everything else in this
price category kind of sucks the 3000 G
is massively underpowered compared to
the 1600 AF so also at overclocks pretty
well but that's it for this one thanks
for watching subscribe for more go to
stored on camera nexus net to help side
directly or patreon.com/scishow Andrews
axis we'll see you all next time
[Music]